>>What can the symbols of
Masonry reveal about yourself?
Let's enter the buzzsaw.
[THEME MUSIC]
Welcome to "Buzzsaw," where
we cut through the mainstream
narrative to explore
the hidden truths.
I'm your host Sean
Stone, and with me today
is Michael Schiavello,
who became a 32nd degree
Mason of the Ancient and
Accepted Scottish Rite in 2014.
Today he enlightens us with
knowledge from his book,
"Know Thyself, Using the
Symbols of Freemasonry
to Improve Your Life."
So I have to start
by asking you,
do you actually offer the
secrets of Masonry in the book?
>>You know what?
That's an interesting
question, Sean,
because as far as
I see it, there
are no great secrets
in Freemasonry.
The only secrets that
a Freemason truly
promises not to reveal
are the passwords
and the secret handshakes,
I guess you could say.
And the reason for that
is to test the mettle
of a man's character, really.
There's nothing there that
you can't find online.
A quick Google
search will find you
the passwords of Freemasonry.
They'll find you pictures
of the secret handshakes
of Freemasonry.
But we choose to
take an obligation
to keep those things
secret because it tests
the mettle of your character.
If you can't trust someone to
keep a pretty basic secret,
you can't really trust
them as a person.
>>Sure.
But a lot of these secrets
have come out, as you say,
because of Google
in the modern age.
But historically,
there have been
all kinds of degrees of
initiation that were secret
and maintained as such.
So obviously, there
has been a tradition
of symbolism and secrecy
that's passed on for a reason.
It hasn't been
altered every year,
as it could have been if there
wasn't something there to it.
>>I think what has happened over
time is that secrecy has always
been a part of learning.
You can go back to the
ancient mystery schools
and talk about Pythagoras, a
couple of thousand years ago.
And secrecy for him and
amongst his students
was of the utmost importance.
And the reason, again, a, to
test the person's character,
but b, also, once
something is secret,
it's only secret
until it's known.
Once something is known,
it's no longer a secret.
But when there's important
knowledge to be attained
and that knowledge
is kept secret,
it means you have to go for it.
You have to climb towards it.
It's not just handed to
you on on a silver platter.
So the more that you aspire
towards that knowledge,
the more that you
aim towards that
knowledge, the
more that knowledge
becomes valuable to you.
Any secret is valuable,
but once revealed,
it's no longer a secret.
So therefore, Freemasonry
has kept up that position
from the ancient Greeks and
the ancient Egyptian mystery
schools as well of using
secrecy as a method of teaching.
But once you get
there, you find out
that the secrets
aren't great secrets.
The knowledge is superb.
But the secrets aren't great.
It's just that it
allows you to be
able to attain that knowledge
that was kept secret to allow
you to aspire towards
it, whereas if it's
open for everyone, well then,
anyone could look it up online.
You don't get the
necessary teaching
that it ingrains on you.
>>Sure.
All right.
So then what are
some of the-- what
is some of the knowledge
then that is held
within the symbols of Masonry?
>>Mostly the Masonic
symbols convey moral lessons
for how to live
your life better.
The aim of Freemasonry
is-- Freemasonry
is a path to self-improvement.
It's many things to
many people, but that's
the way I like to summarize it.
A lot of people choose to
look for different avenues
of self-improvement
in their lives.
Some people choose to do yoga.
Some people choose
to do meditation.
a religious path.
Some people choose other
avenues of higher learning.
But the destination of all
these various paths is the same.
The destination is to
improve yourself as a person
and become the very best
person you can possibly be.
Freemasonry, the way
I see it, is simply
another path, time-tested and
proven over hundreds of years,
if not dating back
thousands of years,
through use of symbols to
make yourself into the best
person you can possibly be.
And we use these
symbols, as I said,
to convey a lot of moral lessons
on to how to lead your life,
how to become a better person,
a lot of spiritual lessons
as well.
But basically, how to ascend
above your animal nature,
above your material self,
above your brute nature.
You look at the symbol of the
Masonic square and compass,
which is probably the most
famous of all Masonic symbols,
and you see the Masonic square.
The square represents
your material side,
because a square doesn't
appear in nature.
So therefore, a square is
something manufactured by man.
The compasses draw a circle.
Now, something that does
appear in nature is a circle.
We see circles everywhere,
throughout nature.
So it's natural.
It's given to us by
God, the source, spirit,
whatever you want to call
your comprehension of God.
So therefore, the
compasses sitting
above the square
on the Masonic logo
symbolize that you have
transcended your base
nature, your material nature.
You're no longer
the square, which
is something made up by man.
You become the
compasses, which means
you have attained a higher
level of learning where
your consciousness has expanded
and your spirituality has
expanded and your connection to
the source is growing closer.
>>So would you say that
ultimately the symbolism found
within Masonry is
actually more indicative
of alchemy and alchemical
processes as Jung, for example,
studied and said,
well, most of alchemy--
there might be some relationship
to chemistry, obviously.
And some people have said
they've created gold from lead.
But for the most part, alchemy
is actual spiritual journey.
Would you say that's the meaning
of most of the symbolism?
>>Alchemy and
Freemasonry have always
been tied closely together,
and not in the sense of alchemy
as you were saying,
turning lead from gold,
but the sense that alchemy
is more so transmutation.
Lead from gold is the
equivalent of turning material
into spiritual, turning your
lower self into your higher
self.
You are transmuting from
one form of yourself
to another form of yourself.
You're simply becoming
a better person.
I think all of us in life go
through a form of alchemy.
When you join-- let's say you
join a martial arts class.
You put on that white
belt and your gi
and you go inside the dojo.
You're basic.
You're a beginner.
You don't know anything.
But through the lessons you
are taught by your sensei
or by your kru in Muay Thai
or by your sifu in Kung Fu,
you go from white belt up
to brown belt, green belt,
yellow belt, brown
belt, black belt, where
you attain the higher learning.
You've transmuted yourself from
a basic beginner to a higher
level.
So therefore, alchemy does
exist in most forms of learning.
So it's a good point you made.
I think Freemasonry
is a form of alchemy,
but it's a spiritual alchemy.
It's a personal alchemy.
It's not a physical alchemy
where we're transferring lead
into gold.
>>Yeah.
Well, give us an example of
some of these major symbols
in Masonry and how they applied
towards knowing ourselves.
>>OK.
Well, we talked about the
square and the compass.
Let's talk about another one.
Let's talk about a beehive.
A beehive is a
symbol in Freemasonry
that occurs in the third degree
of Freemasonry, the Master
Mason degree, which technically
is the highest level of Masonry
you can attain.
You'll hear other
people say they're
a 32nd degree Mason or they're
a Knights Templar Mason.
But really, a third degree is
the highest you can attain.
And then the
extracurricular learning
of the Scottish Rite or the York
Rite branches off horizontally.
So the beehive is contained
in the third degree.
At its very basic,
a beehive symbolizes
everyone working together
for the good of each other,
because the bee really is
the most altruistic creature
in existence.
The bee is the only creature
that goes out of its way
not to serve itself--
it's not self-serving--
but to serve the hive.
They're going out and gathering
the-- distributing the pollen
and gathering the honey and
bringing it back to the hive
and serving the
betterment of the hive.
So really, what a
beehive is teaching
us is to work together, that
you and I need to work together.
Even in this interview,
we need to work together.
We need to gel together.
And even the way that
a beehive is structured
with its hexagonal
honeycombs throughout,
it's the most perfect
structure of any structure
that nature can build.
It leaves the least gaps
between the hexagons.
And the bees work perfectly
within that environment.
So it just goes to show
that when a normal person--
I won't say a normal person.
When what we call a cowan
in Freemasonry, which
is somebody who is not a
Freemason, looks at a beehive
they see a dwelling
place for bees
and maybe they get scared
that they get to get stung
and they try and get
rid of the beehive.
>>Well, I think they
would just be afraid
that the Masons are basically
looking at themselves as sort
of the managers, and
that the rest of society
are just the bees who
are being managed.
>>Oh, no.
No.
Not at all.
>>And they look at themselves
as being outside of it, profane,
for example.
>>Profane's another
word that's used,
but I wouldn't say that at all.
It's basically a beautiful
symbol that says, hey,
we need to work together.
We need to stop being
bigots towards each other.
We need to stop racism
towards each other.
We need to stop
belittling each other.
criticizing each other.
We need to work for the
greater good of humanity,
all together as one.
There's not black race and
white race and Asian race
and this race and other races.
There's the human race.
We're all together as one.
We're all bound as one, so
therefore let's work together.
So I think that when you look
at a symbol like the beehive,
there's beautiful meaning to it.
You look at a symbol like the
gavel, the common gavel it's
called in Freemasonry,
we all see
a gavel used in a courthouse.
We see a gavel used
by auctioneers.
And in the Masonic lodge,
the master of the lodge
uses a gavel to call
the craft to attention
or call them to recess.
But what the gavel
really is-- you go back
to the old stonemason's
tools, where
a lot of the tools and
working tools of Freemasonry
were plucked from, is
that the gavel broke off
the rough edges of the
stones and shaped the stone
for the builder's use.
So really, as Freemasons
what we're doing
is we are using
these working tools
we call them to build ourselves
into the best people we can be.
We're chipping off
our rough edges.
And really what the
Masonic gavel teaches
is willpower,
having the willpower
to say no to certain things.
If you're eating that
extra slice of cake,
if you're gambling with your
hard-earned money, if you're
going out and
binge-drinking at night
when you should be spending
time with your family at home,
the gavel teaches you when
we look at it as Freemasons
that, hey, you need to exert
willpower over your life.
You need to chip off
those superfluities.
>>Or to create
order out of chaos.
>>Create order out of chaos.
>>In terms of-- many people
see some of these symbols,
particularly I would just
think of the all-seeing eye
within the pyramid-- Jay
Z has popularized that
within mass culture.
And we see other symbols
being deployed oftentimes
in mass culture, whether
it's in film or music.
And does that indicate to
you that these are just
people who are seeing who
is on the level with them
and showing that they're on a
certain level of initiation?
Or do you think that
they're just simply using
it to promote themselves?
I mean, I'm just
curious how you read--
>>I think someone like
Jay Z is using that symbol
to make money, to
promote himself,
to try and get that
different market from what
other people have established
with the clothing market.
The eye within the pyramid is
not a Masonic logo as such.
It doesn't appear in any of the
three degrees of Freemasonry.
There's no mention
of the pyramid.
The all-seeing eye
does appear, but people
have given the all-seeing eye
a very bad rap over the years.
But really, it's one of the
most beautiful symbols of all.
It basically teaches
you that there's
a greater power than
you watching over you,
making sure you don't screw up.
When you think--
you're at the checkout
lane at the supermarket, those
personal scanners, right?
You scan your toilet paper
and you scan your toothpaste
and you scan your bag of apples,
and then your bag of Doritos.
And you think, no one's looking.
I'm not going to scan it.
I'm just going to
put it in my trolley.
Then you scan another
couple of items
and then you don't
scan the next item.
Well, really, if there
was someone watching,
if you were at a checkout
and the teller was there,
you wouldn't be able
to get away with that.
And the all-seeing
eye symbolizes
that, symbolizes a higher
power watching over you.
It symbolizes karma.
It says to you--
it's the referee
that calls the foul
before you make the foul.
It says, hey, don't do that.
Don't steal.
Don't act incorrectly
towards another person.
Don't step off that line.
Be a good, decent
person, because even
though you think no one is
watching, someone always is.
And whether you
want to call it God
or whether you want to call it
a higher power, whether you want
to call it your guardian angel,
whether you call it karma,
there's someone always
watching you, taking
into account what you do.
And it's not big brother.
It's not a new world
order and illuminati
and all these other
terms that people
like to associate the
all-seeing eye with.
It's a beautiful
lesson that says,
hey, you know, someone
else-- something else
is watching over you, so
watch what you do and do good.
>>Certainly.
And obviously, there
is the positive path
to all these symbols.
And yet, I've heard it said
that not every Mason is
an important person, but just
about every important person
you see, whether it's in
politics in particular,
is a Mason.
And how does that
resonate to you?
>>I would disagree,
because I think
there's a lot of important
people in the world that
aren't Mason.
But you know, I think
every person in the world
is important.
I don't think one person is
more important than another.
It's just your perception
of how important
you think that person is.
I mean, your perception
may be that the President
of the United States is the most
important person in the world.
But is he really?
I mean, in your personal
world-- in my personal world,
the most important people
to me are my wife and child,
not the president of the US
and not the prime minister
of Australia, where I come from.
So it's only your
perception of who
you think are the most
important people in the world.
And mind you, there
have been a lot
of important and
influential people
who have been Freemasons
over the years,
from presidents to pop stars to
billionaires to entrepreneurs
to astronauts to film stars
to athletes, et cetera.
But there have been
just as many if not
more who have not been
Freemasons over the years.
So it all comes down
to your perception.
>>Arguably.
I mean, I would say that
when it comes to government
administrators, there is a
tremendous fraternity within it
that does indicate Masonic
initiation and relationships,
even down to Masonic Bibles
where the oath of office
gets taken for presidents, for
example, on Masonic Bibles.
>>Well, that's because the first
president, George Washington,
was a Freemason, so he took
his oath on his Masonic Bible,
and that's a tradition
that's carried over.
And I think it's a beautiful
tradition that's carried over
to the current president.
Of course, I think
there are probably
a lot of Masons
within the government.
But you know what?
There's a lot of golfers in
there too, a lot of Christians
in there too.
>>But what I'm trying
to get at, though--
>>There's people from
all different walks
of life in there.
>>My point is simply, why is it
that if we talk about Masonry
as far as the positive
aspirations of what it's
meant to be about,
and yet we see so many
of these administrators,
be it judges, politicians,
Congresspeople,
who are initiated,
why is it that they don't
follow that notion of being
incorruptible and
being a positive force?
We do see so much
corruption and frankly
elitism from these people.
>>And I think it's
very unfortunate.
But I think there's always
going to be bad apples that
are going to ruin a bunch.
And you can't point
to one or two people
or even a handful
of people and then
point to a whole fraternity
like Freemasonry that
has some 6 million
members worldwide
and say, well, because of this
bad apple or that bad apple,
the whole bunch of
them are bad apples.
Like I said,
otherwise we could do
that for virtually any
organization in the world.
>>Right.
But what I've understood is
that people would say, look,
the problem we get
into is that because
of the fraternal nature of it
and the notion of basically
protecting your brothers
within the Order,
oftentimes the corruption
of just a handful
is enough to be protected
by the entire organization,
because when it comes to
any kind of court process
or any type of dissemination
of the information,
the Brotherhood
has to basically--
the brothers between themselves
will cover each other,
watch each other's
back, essentially.
>>Well, again, I
see that happening
in various organizations.
If you know that someone has an
affinity of something similar
that you do, you'll be more
likely to protect that person
or choose that
person over someone
that you don't have
the same affinity with.
You know, if I'm interviewing
two people for a job,
let's say, and both
are equally qualified
but one is a Freemason--
I mean, the qualifications
are equally the same.
They could both
perform the task given
to the exact same requirement
and they're both lovely people,
but one is a Freemason, I
guess I might give him the job,
because you know what?
I have a similarity with him?
>>Sure.
>>Same if I was into
golf and he was a golfer.
Then I've got a more common
talking point with him,
so I'll favor him
and give him the job.
Now, those that abuse their
power, as you were stating--
and I think that's what
you were getting at.
And those that abuse that
power and are elitist and do
do to the whole backscratching
and do cover up any crimes
and they may be Freemasons are
breaking a Masonic obligation.
And as I said,
these are bad apples
that are spoiling the rest of
the bunch for everyone else
and giving the
fraternity a bad rap
at the same time,
because they are breaking
their obligations they've taken,
which obviously don't mean much
for them.
They got into Freemasonry to
better their social status,
better their careers, which is
not the reason to get into it.
And whenever people
petition our lodge,
we are always warning
them against that.
Don't come here to make money.
Don't come here to
improve your social status
and think that you
can network amongst us
and get jobs and get
favors done for you.
It's not what it's about.
And obviously there
have been people
who don't take that advice
and break their obligation.
>>So what is Masonry's
ultimate goal, would you say?
What is it really
about to be a Mason?
Obviously I know
all it takes to be
a Mason is to be a good
man as a prerequisite.
But what is the actual
goal of Masonry?
>>There is a little
bit more to be
a Mason than being a good man.
And yes, Freemasonry doesn't
make good man better,
doesn't make bad men good.
You also need to believe
in a supreme being.
You can't be an atheist
and be a Freemason.
And I think once you
become a Freemason,
it's very obvious as to why.
And you've got to be
of legal age as well.
And a lot of
Freemason lodges don't
make women Masons,
so for men only,
which is another
issue altogether.
But I think at the
guts of it, Freemasonry
is, as I said earlier, a
path of self-improvement,
really what it's about.
It's one of many paths
to self-improvement
you can choose in life that all
go to that same destination,
to try and transcend above
your material, your brute self,
your animal nature and
become closer to the source,
closer to God, closer
to your spiritual side
to become the best
person you can be.
>>But then what
would you make then
of the sort of-- how do you
say-- the religious orientation
when you get writings
like Albert Pike,
obviously one of the
supreme lights of you
know Scottish Rite
masonry in America,
and you know he talks
about the degrees
and how basically at
the higher levels,
you start to realize that
the earlier-- higher levels
understand things that
the earlier levels didn't
understand, and coming to this
notion of basically Lucifer
is the real god and
Jehovah is the devil god.
What do you make of--
>>Albert Pike never said
that Lucifer is the real god.
OK.
So Albert Pike, you're talking
about "Morals and Dogma," which
is a big book in Freemasonry.
But there's a disclaimer also at
the start of "Morals and Dogma"
that says-- I'm paraphrasing
here, because I haven't read
Morals and Dogma in a while.
That's a hell of a
book to get through.
And basically it says, take
from Albert Pike's writing
what you want.
You don't have to believe it.
This is basically
Albert Pike's thoughts.
A lot of what Albert Pike wrote
I don't agree with at all.
And a lot of what he
wrote was fantastic.
>>And certainly he was racist.
And he has all kinds
of problems, obviously.
>>Sure.
Sure.
There's a big background
on Albert Pike
you can research into.
The whole of Lucifer
thing, though, he never
said Lucifer was God.
I think that what
Albert Pike said
was a Luciferian energy--
that Freemasons look
for the Luciferian energy or the
"saving energies of Lucifer" I
think are the words that he
used in "Morals and Dogma."
Well, you've got to
remember that Lucifer
in its original Roman word means
the light, the light-bearer.
>>Yeah.
>>OK.
Lucifer was never meant to
be taken as a bad thing.
It was always meant to
be taken as a good thing.
So originally, when Lucifer I
think first appears in the book
of Isaiah in the Bible-- and
even that should give you
a hint, because obviously the
Bible's written in a language
that wasn't Roman, whereas
Lucifer being a Roman term
cannot date take back that
far to the original writing
of Isaiah.
It was originally
about a fallen king,
I believe, a Babylonian king.
And then Lucifer got taken on
as this fallen angel, which
came to believe to be Satan.
Lucifer means the light-bearer.
This was what Albert
Pike was getting at.
And in Masonry, the only thing
a Freemason ever asks for, Sean,
in all the three degrees
of Freemasonry is light.
Lights in Masonry,
more light in Masonry,
further light in Masonry.
Light means knowledge.
Light is what
breaks the darkness.
Light is what breaks the evil.
So Lucifer representing
the first light,
being the false light, which
is the planet Venus that
rises in dawn just before the
sun, it hails the false light.
The sun's the real light.
But still, it's what
first breaks the darkness.
There's nothing bad about that.
>>It's Promethean, actually.
It really could be modeled
on Prometheus, right?
>>Modeled on Prometheus.
Exactly.
But there's nothing
bad about that.
It's a complete antithesis of
what we presume evil to be.
So the fact that
people have taken
what Pike said about Lucifer
and turned it into something bad
is erroneous, because
really what he's saying
is Lucifer breaks the darkness.
Everything darkness
represents, evil,
all the evils of the
world-- because darkness
was the first great
evil for the ancients.
When they couldn't
see at night and they
could be the target
for prey coming at them
and they couldn't see
where they were going,
that was the first great evil.
And then the light was
broken by the Lucifer,
by the planet Venus rising
before the great light,
the sun.
So really, he's saying
something very good.
But it's being interpreted
as something very bad.
Do I think Albert Pike
could have used a better
word than Lucifer?
Yes.
It would have saved us
Freemasons almost 200 years
of having these
sort of discussions
and trying to justify
what Albert Pike wrote.
But that's the word
he chose to use.
You've just got to put
it in the right context
and understand why
he said Lucifer.
>>Right.
But it still seems
to me like I can't
believe that Masonry's
only agenda is
to make good men better
or to basically be
a fraternity for good people.
>>What do you think
the agenda is?
>>Well, for example,
let's take this.
We know the Masons were--
most of the founding fathers
were Masons.
And they put into, for example,
the great seal the symbolism,
the notion of a
Novus ordo seclorum,
or a new order for the ages
or a new secular order.
According to Manly
Hall, America was
supposed to be the beacon for
democracy, which is basically
what the agenda of the ancient
secret societies is about,
is spreading democracy as
one of the principles, one
of the philosophies, right?
So when you look at the nature
of the grid system of DC,
for example, Masonic
architecture all over,
bringing the obelisk
into DC, into New York,
obviously very important symbols
that have been placed here.
So it makes me have
to ask, what do you
think-- because
some people say it's
about constructing the third
temple of Solomon, for example,
right?
But what is the
agenda in your study?
>>It is building a third temple
of Solomon, but not in the way
you think, not a
physical temple.
Freemasons are taught
that you are the temple.
The temple that was torn
down, was destroyed,
you are rebuilding.
You are the temple.
And therefore, you're
using these working tools
of Freemasonry, the gavel,
the chisel, the 24-inch gauge,
the plumb, the level, all
the so-called working tools
of Freemasonry to
build yourself.
You are the temple.
And they considered
Solomon's Temple,
which was built-- what was
it, like 4000 BC, 5000 BC?
They considered that to be the
most beautiful structure ever
built, or at least
up until that time.
And as a beautiful structure,
the most beautiful structure,
the most beautiful being
ever built in history
is the human being.
So therefore, when your
disconnection from the source
happened, when you fell
from being a pure person,
you're trying to attain that
level of pureness again.
You're trying to attain your
higher consciousness, become
the best person you can be.
You're rebuilding the temple.
It's not a physical temple.
You're not going to see
a physical temple being
built in Jerusalem again, or
in Washington, DC, or wherever
else.
You are the temple and you
are rebuilding that temple.
The fact that Washington, DC
was designed a lot by Masonic
architectures, well, sure.
You know, they chose to
leave the symbols behind,
as the medieval
stone masons did.
You'll see mason's
marks on a lot
of the buildings
throughout Europe
that these were built by
stone masons, by masons.
Before they were
speculative Masons,
they were operative masons.
It's no great agenda
there, though.
There's no great agenda to
try to indoctrinate people
in anything.
And don't forget,
Sean, also, that people
may look at a pyramid
with an all-seeing eye
and may look at an obelisk--
and again, an obelisk is not
a Masonic symbol.
It's an ancient Egyptian symbol.
It's not a Masonic symbol.
But people might look at
these and think, well,
something sinister is happening.
But a symbol is only
as powerful, Sean,
as you choose to let
it have power over you.
It really is.
If you choose not to let a
symbol have power over you,
it's just a drawing.
I could do a drawing of a
triangle for argument's sake,
OK?
Let me do a drawing
of a triangle.
I draw a triangle on
a piece of paper here.
Now, to a young child
who's just drawn
that-- I'm not a
very good drawer,
as you can see--
that's a triangle.
I can make a house out of that.
I can a pyramid out of that.
I could make a
mountain out of that.
That's what a child sees.
To a high school
student, they'll
see maybe Pythagoras'
theorem, something
they've studied in geometry
class or in mathematics class.
To a Freemason,
if I look at that,
will see an equilateral
triangle, which
is perfect in all its parts.
One, two, three;
mind, body, and soul,
representing the perfect man.
Now, to a Satanist, that's
a thaumaturgic triangle
where they can summon spirits
and demons for evil purposes.
If I show this to
your cameraman,
he's probably thinking,
yeah, it's a triangle,
it is true, nothing more.
So this can be
empowered depending
on your interpretation
of it, but only as
much as you allow yourself to
be influenced by that symbol.
>>Sure.
But we know from lore and
mythology and history--
you talk about the construction
of the Solomon's Temple
and it was done by jinn, by
commanding of jinn or entities,
what are oftentimes called
demons, but really just
entities.
Whether or not they were
used for positive or negative
was up to the source who
were commanding them.
And there is something to be
questioned about the nature
of ritual in the modern world.
Do you believe that
when we do ritual
and we conduct
certain practices,
whether it be symbolic, verbal,
that we are evoking entities
from a non-physical plane?
>>I believe when we do
ritual-- and ritual is
very important in
Freemasonry, as you know.
Ritual forms the
heart of Freemasonry,
because when you do your first,
second, third degree, or any
of the appending body
degrees, you are always
undertaking a ritual.
What a ritual does in a
Masonic lodge, in my opinion
only-- now, there might be other
Masons out there that disagree.
But in my opinion-- and
being master of a lodge
and I conduct the ritual
every week in my lodge in Las
Vegas-- is that it raises
the vibration of the lodge.
It puts everyone
from here up to here.
It raises their awareness,
raises their vibration,
raises their
excitement about what
is happening in lodge,
and not in a bad way,
in a very good way.
And don't forget the rituals
are part of everyday life,
are part of people's lives.
Even your coming here to the
studio and doing this show,
you woke up.
You went to the bathroom.
You brushed your teeth.
You did your hair.
You had a shower.
You put on your
clothes in a certain.
You ate your
breakfast and you had
a certain menu you had for
breakfast and a certain way
you had your coffee.
It's all ritual.
Again, when you go
do a yoga class,
you do a martial
arts class, you're
undertaking a form of ritual.
Freemasonry aren't the
soul proprietors of ritual.
>>No, not at all.
>>Everyone uses ritual
every day of their lives,
and for various reasons.
And usually, it's
to help you get
to a place that is different
from where you began.
If you didn't undertake
your morning ritual,
you'd still be lying
in bed right now.
We wouldn't be doing
this interview.
>>Sure.
Sure.
There is a ritual
nature, but then there
are more powerful
rituals than others.
Super Bowl is a more
powerful ritual.
The Academy Awards is
a more powerful ritual.
>>I agree.
I don't believe
that Freemasonry--
>>Inaugurations.
>>--is a ritual that is
trying to summon any spirits,
summon any negative
forces, anything like that.
I believe that a ritual, a,
puts everyone on the same path.
Everyone is doing the same
thing in the lodge room.
They're having the same
experience, a joint experience.
Again, it's that
coming together,
working together as one unit.
Although there might be
30 or 40 of us in lodge,
we're all working
towards the same goal.
We're all working towards
improving ourselves
and elevating our consciousness.
And that's what our ritual
in Masonic lodge does.
It opens up that vibration.
>>But there is something I've
heard from another 32nd degree
master, who said that
within his Masonic Lodge--
I think he was actually the
grandmaster of it-- the OTO,
which is considered
a more Satanic order,
actually had many
of the Masons--
>>OTO is not Masonic, though.
>>They're not Masonic, but
there are Masons-- well, again,
Masonry is an
interesting initiation
so that they basically-- these
Masons had joined the OTO
and were actually practicing
their OTO rituals in the lodge.
>>No.
Impossible.
>>No, because it was done
in secret after hours.
>>Well, then it wasn't
a Masonic ritual.
>>It wasn't a Masonic ritual.
It was an OTO ritual.
My point is, these OTO
practices were being
conducted in a Masonic lodge.
And don't you think that
this could effectively
denigrate the energy of the
Masonic-- of the temple?
>>A, no, I don't believe so.
And b, OTO rituals should not
be practiced in a Masonic lodge.
Perhaps--
>>I'm not saying they should be.
I'm just saying this
is what I've heard.
>>No.
They have their own
areas to perform those.
And so whoever the person
was in charge of that lodge,
the master of that lodge
who allowed that ritual
to be performed in the lodge
should be severely reprimanded,
if not suspended or
expelled, because that's
a terrible violation of the
lodge, which we consider a very
sacred space.
Would it bring in
negative energy?
Sure, it might to them and
the rituals they're doing,
but not to the
rituals we're doing.
We're elevating
our own energies.
our own vibration.
In our lodge, it's
very, very positive.
There's nothing
negative about it.
And seeing that all that will
just begin with a prayer-- we
begin by dedicating our lodge
to God, to the supreme being,
to the grand architect
of the universe.
Then that is only
if you want to say
invoking positive vibrations
for us, no negative vibrations.
So what they had in that
room, they left in that room,
they took with them
out of that room,
has nothing to do
with Masonic ritual.
>>Fair enough.
I'm simply saying
that it's interesting,
because once you enter this
path of self-awareness,
know thyself, self-initiation,
essentially getting
to a place of understanding
that there is a supreme creator,
but we are much more
empowered beings than before,
oftentimes that knowledge
leads to a dark path.
Am I correct, that it
can go to either way?
And that is perhaps
what we're seeing
when we see a lot of
conspiracy theorists say,
well, it's because of Masonry.
Well, I always say
I think Masonry
is a form of initiation into
a different understanding
of reality beyond the conforms
of your social conditioning,
religious conditioning,
and whatnot.
And oftentimes, with that
new awareness and knowledge,
gnosis in a sense, comes
then the opportunity
to take two directions with it.
And that is why
you do see Masons
who are practicing Satanic
ritual and things like OTO,
Crowley type of rituals
that oftentimes lead
to more bestial behavior,
because they've empowered
themselves and they choose to
use that power for the negative
as opposed for the positive.
>>And I think you
summed it up very well.
I think you actually answered
your own question pretty well
right there.
Again, it's how you choose to
empower the symbolism you're
learning and the
lessons you're learning,
and whether, as you
said, you go a dark path
or you continue
following the path.
There's dualities in life.
Life is made up of dualities.
You know, the checkered pavement
is another Masonic symbol
that all Masonic lodges
have a checkered floorboard
of black and white squares.
That symbolizes the
duality in life.
Try and stay on the
white squares more
than the black squares in life.
Try and stay in the light
rather than the darkness.
But unfortunately,
there are people
that do take the wrong path.
And these people, if
they get found out
in a Masonic lodge, that's
the path they've taken,
then actions are taken to
remove them from the lodge.
They're not allowed
in the lodge anymore.
We don't accept Satan
as a higher being.
It's not a supreme being.
You can't take an obligation
on a Satanic book in a Masonic
lodge, because we
don't recognize
Satan as a supreme being.
To be a supreme being, you
have to be the big, right?
>>Right.
>>So we don't recognize Satan
as being more supreme than God.
>>I think it's a
great summation.
Thank you so much for
joining me today, Michael.
I really appreciate the talk.
>>Sure, and it's been an
absolute pleasure, mate.
My pleasure to meet you and
be here on the "Buzzsaw."
I love the show.
>>Absolutely.
Thank you so much.
>>Thank you.
>>And there you have it,
folks, fascinating insights
from Michael Schiavello.
You may not agree with or
believe everything he said here
today, but I urge you to check
out his book "Know Thyself,"
as well as his website,
MichaelSchiavello.net.
Remember, the road to
truth is a perilous path
along the edge of the buzzsaw.
I'm your host, Sean Stone,
and you are the revolution.
[THEME MUSIC]